---
layout: post_page
title: A short thought on community capacity building
---

Community capacity building is more important than simply giving aid alone in developing countries.

Why?

First, let's define community capacity building as the "process of developing and strengthening the skills, instincts, abilities, processes and resources that organizations and communities need to survive, adapt, and thrive in the fast-changing world" (thanks wikipedia).

Capacity building is a long-term effort.

Giving aid usually steers toward an immediate need, therefore a shorter-term approach. But it can be long-term as well, for example helping to build a school and hire teachers.

While giving aid to countries that need it certainly have their place, it should be done alongside efforts to build capacity in these countries or areas. 

Another thing to consider is whether the resources given to a community are sustainable and contributes to a longer term endeavor.

For instance, donating shoes to a poor community may benefit those without shoes. But what about the local businesses that sell shoes and rely on the income for a living? While intentions may mean well, the inherent problem is not targeted in this case.

Let's take this same example, and apply capacity building. How would we give this community the resources to thrive? Tal Dehtiar founded Oliberte to address just that. Oliberte shoes are manufactured in Ethiopia, which created jobs and helped those working gain skills they will have the rest of their lives. 

There are others.

In my opinion, solid education and healthcare are the two vital elements needed to bolster capacity in developing countries. 

The most challenging factors tend to be monetary limitations, societal stagnations, or government regulations. 

Other challenges are less clear, and vary depending upon the unique situation of a country. How about displaced people; people without homes?

Entrepreneurship is necessary to overcome these challenges and push forward.
