---
title: R libraries- sqldf
---

Here is a little reference of different ways to use sqldf to get what you want out of your data. Keep in mind you have to put your data in a data frame first before using sqldf. In addition, sqldf does not accept "." in column names, so be sure to rename your columns to get around this. The "." is used to join data. In addition to joining data frames, sqldf can select columns, rename columns, add columns, and update columns. Will be adding more to this as I continue using sqldf. 

	library(sqldf)

Update column based on condition.

	df<-sqldf(c("update df
		set CatScore=16
		where CakesEaten='TooMany'",
		"select * from df"))

Update column based on multiple conditions.

	df<-sqldf(c(
		"update df
		set CatStatus='SuperCat' 
		where CakesEaten in ('TooMany','WayTooMuchCake','CakeOverload','OhMyGodMoarCake') 
		and TimeToFinish<=650",
		"select * from df"))

Select columns conditionally, create new sum column. Be sure to group by factors.

	data<-sqldf(
		"select weight,meows,purrs,sum(cats) as cats 
		from data 
		where meows in ('cake','icecream','fudge') 
		group by weight,meows,purrs")

or, if the reference list is in a data frame:

	list<-as.data.frame(c('cake','icecream','fudge'))
	colnames(list)<-"yums"
	data<-sqldf(
		"select weight,meows,purrs,sum(cats) as cats 
		from data 
		where meows in (select yums from 'list') 
		group by weight,meows,purrs")

Create new column and assign value conditionally.

	df<-sqldf("select *, 
		case when chocolate like '%dark%' then 1
		else 0
		end as ChocoType
		from df")