---
title: Cooking
---

Root Vegetable Soup
============

makes a large pot of soup

2 Daikon Radishes
2 Yellow Beets
2 Carrots
1 Onion
9 oz. Couscous
Chicken Boullion
Basil
Salt & Pepper
Cumin
Tumeric
Red Pepper

Boil diced vegetables and boullion for about 1 hour, season to taste.

Make some couscous and put it in the soup when you're ready to eat.

Summer Squash Quesadillas
=========

makes 4-5 quesadillas

1 Summer Squash
1 can of Black Beans
Sharp Cheddar Cheese
Sour Cream
Guacamole
Flour Tortillas
Salt & Pepper
Fresh Oregano
Cumin
Tumeric
Olive Oil

Sautée diced squash in olive oil at medium heat, with salt, pepper, and oregano. 

Heat beans in small pot with salt, pepper, cumin, and tumeric. Add water as necessary.

Place tortilla in pan at low heat. Add cheese, beans, and squash. Fold over and brown each side.

Serve with sour cream and guacamole.

Fresh Spaghetti
=========

makes 2 servings

4 Tomatoes on the vine
3 cloves garlic
Dry Spaghetti
Olive Oil
Salt & Pepper
Fresh Oregano
Fresh Basil

Cook spaghetti, adding plenty of salt only after water returns to boil after adding spaghetti.

Sautée diced tomatoes, with whole garlic cloves, salt, pepepr, basil, and oregano on medium heat in olive oil.

Once tomatoes are soft, press until skin separates from the pulp. 

The pulp should eventually incorporate with the olive oil into a sauce.

Toss out garlic and tomato skins before serving.

Salvadorean Breakfast
=========

makes 2 servings

2 Plantains
1/2 an Onion
Green or Red Peppers
1 can of Black Beans
Vegetable Oil
Butter
4 Eggs
Corn Flour
Sour Cream

Heat beans over medium heat, adding water as necessary, until beans are soft. Mash in the pot with a spoon.

Cut plantains in half both directions. Sautee at medium-high heat in vegetable oil. 

Scramble eggs in bowl with 1 shot of water. Finely dice onion and peppers, and add to bowl.

Heat butter in a pan at medium heat, then add eggs, slowly pushing the eggs until almost cooked. Turn off the heat until done.

Make tortillas with corn flour.

Serve with sour cream.

Roasted Brussel Sprouts
=========

Some Brussel Sprouts
Balsamic Vinegar
Salt & Pepper
Olive Oil
Garlic

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 

Cut off bottoms of sprouts and cut in half. Place in pan.

Chop Garlic and place in pan.

Drizzle plenty of olive oil and only a bit of balsamic vinegar over the pan.

Season with salt and pepper.

Roasted Beets/Onions/Anything
=========

Beets/Onions/Anything
Olive Oil
Fresh Oregano

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 

Peel beets, then dice. Place in deep pan. Drizzle with olive oil, and season with oregano.

Baked Salmon with Asparagus and Potatoes
=========

Makes 2 servings

1 Lb Salmon
Some Asparagus
1 Large Potato
Oregano
Salt & Pepper
1 Tsp Honey Dijon Mustard
2 Tbsp Maple Syrup
2 Cloves Garlic
Butter

Preheat oven to 425 degrees.

Wash salmon with cool water, pat dry, and place in pan. Season with salt and pepepr and add chopped garlic.

Melt 1 tbsp butter, mix with maple syrup with honey, then drizzle over salmon. Place in oven.

Cube potatoes, fry in pan with butter, salt, pepper, and oregano, until soft.

Sautée asparagus with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Maple-Mustard-Glazed Baked Chicken
=========

Makes 2 servings

1 Lb Boneless, Skinless Chicken Thighs
1/2 Cup Dijon Mustard
1/4 Cup Maple Syrup
2 Tbsp Butter
1 Tbsp Rice Vinegar
Salt & Pepper

Preheat oven to 450 degrees. 

Wash chicken, pat dry, place in pan, and season with salt and pepper.

Melt butter, mix with vinegar, mustard, and maple syrup, and drizzle over chicken.

Bake for 40 min, or until thermometer reads 165 degrees, occasionally spreading sauce over chicken.



